# November 5, 2014 - CLASS NOTES

* Martha Snippets
  * Use your words
  * No error left behind!

#### Understanding State

* initializing an object
* being able to use the state of an object
* understanding that an object has different behaviors based on state
* Students must work alone on this
* Don't hard code! C'mon!

#### UNDERSTANDING ERRORS / ERRORS YOU HAVE BEEN SEEING A LOT OF

`wrong number of arguments (1 for 0)`

* The method we are calling is expecting 0 arguments but we are passing it 1
* The first number (1 in this case) is what you are passing it
* The second number ( 0 in this case) is what it is accepting

`a dump of gobbledy gook (also known as a stack trace)`

* typically a syntax error
* look for missing ends, and fat finger mistakes

`undefined method`

* you are calling a method that does not exist

`undefined method < some-method-name>` for nil:NilClass

* you are calling a method on nil
* maybe your return value is nil
* because maybe your method is empty?
* what do you really have?
* what are you actually asking Ruby to give you?
* use `p` to inspect your object

##### When you have an error that is not an RSpec error:

* a non RSpec error is no bueno
* it means you wrote something that makes no sense to Ruby
* you have a syntax problem, not a logic problem

##### When you're getting `nil or [ ]` and you don't know why:

* back it up!
* in baby steps, go through your code and inspect what you are actually getting
* find the origin

#### VOCABULARY - Can you define these dev terms?

* block
* class
* array
* hash
* method
* collection
* iterator
* local repository
* remote repository
* version control system
* command line
* scope
* constant
* variables
* local variable
* instance variable
* global variable
* module
* symbol
* string
* integer
* float
* hard coding

##### [Pig Latiner](git@github.com:gschool-g5/pig-latiner.git)

* Understanding the Ruby concept of self
* Defining class methods
* Using class methods
* When do I want to use a class method?

```ruby
# defining a class
class MyClass
  def my_name
  end
end

# instantiating an object
# we also say newing up an object
my_class = MyClass.new

# my_class is an instance of the class MyClass
```

* Class methods do not need an initialize method
* Hierarchy of methods - in what context are which methods available?
* How do you access what's in an object? When you have a layer of abstraction,
you use methods to access what is inside an object.

#### AH HAS!
* attr_reader
* uninitialized constant SomeClassName  - You do not have this class anywhere!
* Rule of Thumb! Every spec file should have a matching ruby file
* Example: spec/some_file_spec.rb -- there should also be -- lib/some_file.rb
