# October 23, 2014

#### Stand Up

Spring - don't use it! Save yourself the trouble of having your app blow up.

Two ways to create a new rails app and avoid Spring:

```bash
  rails new <name-of-app> --skip-spring
```
OR

Remove the spring gem from you gemfile and bundle

#### Bundler

Bundler is a gem! And your personal gems shopper. Whenever you make changes to
your gemfile, clone an app, or new up an app you need to run 'bundle' in
your terminal (make sure you are in the right directory!).

'bundle' is an alias for 'bundle install'. Either one is fine! Also, whenever you add gems or bundle,
you also need to kill your server by typing 'ctrl+C' and then 'rail s' to start it up again.

```bash
  bundle    #or bundle intall
            #ctrl+C to kill your server
  rails s   #to restart your server
```

#### Bluemix Garage Launches!

Talk by Steve Robinson, General Manager, IBM Cloud Platform Services
(http://asmarterplanet.com/blog/2014/10/bluemix-garage.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ASmarterPlanet+(A+Smarter+Planet)

#### [Rails Console](http://g5.gschool.it/lessons/rails-tutorial/06-console/deliverable)

```bash
  rails console
  #OR
  rails c
```

To exit rails console:

```bash
  exit
  #OR
  ctrl D
```

#### RESTful Routes

Check out [this link](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html) and go about
halfway down the page for a table that very clearly shows these routes.

#### CRUD

* CREATE
* READ
* UPDATE
* DELETE

#### [Relationships - Making Associations](http://g5.gschool.it/lessons/rails-tutorial/05-relationships-light/deliverable)

#### Creating Data

```bash
user = User.new
user.first_name = “Joe”
user.save
or
user = User.create(first_name: “Joe”)
```

#### Reading Existing Data

* find method with an ID

```bash
user = User.find(1)
```

* handy methods
```bash
user = User.first
user = User.last
```

#### Updating Data

```bash
user = User.find(1)
user.first_name = “Fred”
user.save
or
user = User.find(1)
user.update_attributes(first_name: “Fred”, last_name:
“Rodgers”)
```

#### Destroying Data

```bash
user = User.find(1)
user.destroy
```

#### Routes.rb - Setting the home page

* located in the config folder of your rails app
* controls what routes your app knows about
* you can set the "home" page of your app by setting the 'root' route

```ruby
  root 'projects#index'
```
#### Migrations

* How to write a migration
* How to run a migration
* When you run rake db:migrate, the application walks through each migration file
and executes everything in the file.
* migration file names start with numbers (a timestamp) followed by whatever you
typed into the terminal when you generated the migration file.
* rake db:rollback (This will rollback your migrations by one. It will undo each
  most recent migration.) The file is not deleted, but the data and tables will
  be dropped. You must run rake db:migrate to create your tables again. But all
  data will be lost.
