October 24th, 2014

### Technologies We Used This Week

Below is the class list from this morning. See if you can categorize them
yourself and add definitions!

#### TERMINAL

* Rails command
* Bash
* Bundler
* Homebrew
* UNIX

#### LANGUAGES & FRAMEWORKS

* Ruby
* HTML
* CSS
* Javascript
* GO
* SQL
* Rails
* Bash

#### GENERAL

* Atom
* Server - localhost
* Terminal
* Chrome
* API
* Google
* Stack Overflow
* SO
* Testing & TDD (Test Driven Development)* git
* github

#### WEB PAGES

* HTTP
* Views
* ERB
* HTML
* Javascript

#### OTHER -

* RVM
* CRUD
* MVC
* Rails Console
* Migrations
* Gemfile
* Rake
* Gems
* API
* REST
* Routes
* Sudo
* OSX

#### Thanks Helen for sending out additional links!

* [Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
* [Ruby on Rails - Code Walk Through Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=djApduemlf4)

#### Routes (routes.rb)

* controller actions
* requests
* http verb and path

#### Active Record

* .create - creates an object
* .all - finds all of the objects
* .find() - finds a specific object

#### Errors

In developer land, success is not defined by the absence of errors. It is the ability
to get to get past one error and on to a new one :D. Get comfortable being
uncomfortable!!

* How to read errors
* Be patient with errors! You will understand them more with time.

#### Don't forget to stand up and walk away from a problem!

Your mind also needs to rest. Take mental breaks and time off. Burning out will
not be conducive to productive learning and happiness.
