October 28th, 2014

## Breaking Down Problems

##### Man, problem solving is complicated! But does it have to be? What can we
##### do to simplify it?

Class, you are such troopers! Learning to write code and solve problems can be
a head banging experience. Take a deep breath. I've found that it helps to start
practice a process - a problem solving process that you can rest on when the going
gets tough and you want to throw your machine across the room.

Eventually, you will all custom design your own process, or strategy, for how you
solve problems. But to get you started, I've got a few tips that you might find
helpful.

### Stuck?

#### Write Psuedo Code

Psuedo code is very similar to the exercise we did of telling a robot how to
brush its teeth. It is the process of writing down in plain English, in teeny
tiny steps, what you need your program to do. You can practice this by
writing comments in your file. You do this by using the pound symbol ( # ).

EXAMPLE:

*  # A method name 'hey' takes an input
*  # it checks the input to see if it is in all caps
*  # it checks to see if the input is a question

#### 4 Steps To Keep You Going

* Come up with a theory
* Write a little bit of code
* Run your tests
* Try again

#### 3 Important Things to Keep Track of

* What do you have?

  * An array, a string, a hash? Always know what you are starting with.

* What are you asking for?

  * Your program will give you _exactly_ what you ask it for. So always check
  your code and tests to rule out any syntactical errors.

* What do you want?

  * What do you want the program to return to you? A hash, an array, a string?
  Are you explicitly telling your program to do that?

#### The Devil is in the Details

* Think small! Try the simplest approach to solving your problem. If a theory is
failing, abandon it. It is easy to be stubborn with your code and theories and
make assumptions about what you "know". Get the facts. Accept that you know very
little and be open to unexpected, simple errors.

** TIP:

When terminal is dumping a huge messy error message to you - check for stupid
stuff like missing end statements, commas where they don't belong, a method
being used improperly.

#### Onward! You're doing great!
