# October 21, 2014

Orientation, continued...

## Morning  

* Intro to standup / standup

* Intro to warmup
* Warmup: [Goals, Anti-goals, Risks](https://github.com/gSchool/goals-anti_goals-risks)

#### Days off:

    * 2014-11-27
    * 2014-11-28
    * 2014-12-24
    * 2014-12-25
    * 2014-12-26
    * 2014-12-29
    * 2014-12-30
    * 2015-12-31
    * 2015-01-01
    * 2015-01-02
    * 2015-02-16

[Intro to Rails](../lessons/rails-tutorial/00-overview/deliverable)

## gSchool Instructor Values and Beliefs

#### Values

* Realistic Problems
* Working Software
* Teaching to think, over following recipe
* Translating ideas into software
* Individual contributions over group
* Different learning styles
* Honesty over coddling
* Maintainable code
* Theory only after applicability
* Growth Mindset
* Transferrable Skills

#### Beliefs

* Modular code in maintainable code
* TDD / Testing is a tool to get to maintainable code
* Modular design leads to transferable software skills
* There are a variety of metrics in web development
* Students will not be in step or equal in these metrics
* Learning abilities and affective skills are not fixed
* Coding is a trade, learnable and teachable
* Everyone in the community should get closer to their goals

#### Community Standards

* Disruptive behavior is unacceptable
* People will be asked to leave for disrupting community

### Growth Mindset

[Why the Growth Mindset?](http://www.mindsetworks.com/webnav/whatismindset.aspx)

### Student-Goals

* Proficiency at full-stack development
* Extend education beyond gSchool
* Personal website / portfolio
* Lasting relationships with gSchoolers
* Understand programming enough to learn another language
* Turn requirements into software
* Problem breakdown
* Technical interviews

### Student-Anti-goals

* Learn Java
* Deploy an app to production
* Become UI / UE expert
* IT Skills
* Command line tools

### Student-Risks

* Rat holes
* Staying healthy
* Confidence - Imposter Syndrome
* Humble pie - The only stupid question is the one that goes unasked!

### Convention Over Configuration

#### What

A software design paradigm which seeks to decrease the number of decisions
that developers need to make, gaining simplicity, but not necessarily losing
flexibility.

Example: You have a class "Sale" in your model. The corresponding table in your
 database should be named "sales".

#### Why?

Some frameworks need multiple configuration files, each with many settings.
These provide information specific to each project, ranging from URLs to mappings
between classes and database tables. A large number of configuration files with
lots of parameters is often difficult to maintain. By using "default" naming
conventions, developers can minimize potential errors.

## Terminal Commands

#### tab - tab completion
* Will complete the name of a unique file or directory

#### cd - change directory
```bash
  cd name-of-directory
 ```
#### ls - list directory

* Will list the files and directories of your current working directory

#### pwd - print working directory

#### mkdir - make new directory
```bash
  mkdir name-of-new-directory
```
#### mkdir -p
```bash
  mkdir -p ParentDirectory/new-directory
```
#### rm - remove
```bash
  rm name-of-file-to-delete.txt #USE WITH CAUTION!
```
#### mv - move a file OR rename a file
```bash
  # move a file
  mv app/name-of-file.txt home/name-of-file.txt

  # rename a file
  mv old-name-of-file.txt new-name-of-file.txt
```
#### cp - copy a file
```bash
  cp file-to-copy.txt name-of-new-copy.txt
```
#### cat - show contents of a file
```bash
  cat name_of_file.txt
```
#### touch - create an empty file
```bash
  touch name_of_new_file.txt
```

#### Absolute paths vs Relative paths

Absolute path starts with a forward slash (/)
example: /Users/jfoley/Projects/gschool/todo

Tilda (~) is an alias for your home folder
example: ~/Projects/gschool/todo

/Users/jfoley/Projects/gschool/todo is equal to ~/Projects/gschool/todo

A relative path is relative to your working directory

* If your working directory is 'Projects' than the path 'gschool/todo'
is relative to where you are, rather than relative to your root directory.

### Bundler - Bundle Install

If your gemfile is a sort of shopping list of gems you need for your app, than
think of bundler as a personal shopper. Bundler goes to the internet and gathers
up all the gems listed in your Gemfile. You ask it to do this when you type:

```bash
  bundle install
```

## Rails

This is a big picture intro to rails! You are not expected to understand the
plethora of information covered today. The goal of the rails intro is simply to
show you that these things exist.

#### MVC

* Model
* View
* Controller

#### Migrations

* Databases have tables
* Tables have rows and columns

If a spreadsheet is like a database, then the tabs in the spreadsheet are like
the tables in the database. And just like a spreadsheet, each table (just like
each tab) has rows and columns that hold data.

#### Routes

The routes file is where rails stores the paths to all the pages in your app. From
the command line you can view all of the routes available in your app.

```bash
  rake routes
```
