## Introduction to Git and GitHub
* [The entire Pro Git book](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

The two things developers do most:

* Collaberate
* Make mistakes

#### What is Git?

Git is a version control system. It allows you to track changes you make to files
on your machine. This is helpful for when you screw things up! And you will. And
that's ok. Version control allows developers to revert back to a specific time
and place in your code. Sort of like a reset button.

#### What is GitHub?

Github is a web based service that hosts repositories on a server and allows
developers to easily collaborate. It is another place for source code management,
like git, but the two are NOT the same.

#### Git / GitHub Basic Flow

Create a new project using Terminal:

```bash
  mkdir < name-of-project >
  cd < name-of-project >
  git init #This initializes a git repository
  # Do stuff.
  git status
  git add < name-of-file >
  git commit -m "Commit message"
```
Before we can push our local repository to GitHub, we need to create a repo in
GitHub.

Pushing your project to GitHub:

* Go to GitHub
* Click the + at top right of profile and select 'New repository'
* Name the repo
* Add a brief description
* Click 'Create repository'
* Click the SSH tab and copy the SSH

Inside your project in Terminal do the following:

```bash
  git remote add origin < paste SSH >
  #Now we can push it to GitHub
  git push origin master
```

## Ruby Basics

* [Everything is an object](http://g5.gschool.it/lessons/ruby-basics/1-objects/deliverable)
* [Varying with variables](http://g5.gschool.it/lessons/ruby-basics/2-variables/deliverable)
* [In the flow](http://g5.gschool.it/lessons/ruby-basics/3-flow/deliverable)
* [Strings](http://g5.gschool.it/lessons/ruby-basics/4-strings/deliverable)

#### [Variables](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/ruby/ruby_variables.htm)

* variables are written in snake_case
* can contain any alphanumeric characters and an underscore ( _ )
* cannot _start_ with a number
* local variable vs global variable vs instance variable

  * local variable
    * begin with a lower case letter or underscore
    * the scope of a local variable is limited

  * global variable
    * available everywhere (not recommended)
    * start with a $ ($i_am_a_global_variable)

  * instance variable
    * begin with the @ symbol
    * the scope of the instance variable is wider than a local, but is still
      limited.

#### Variables act like the things they hold

```irb
  #EXAMPLE 1

  var_1 = 1
  => 1
  var_2 = 4
  => 4
  var_1 + var_2
  => 5

  #EXAMPLE 2

  var_1 = "hello"
  => "hello"
  var_2 = "goodbye"
  => "goodbye"
  var_1 + var_2
  => "hellogoodbye"
  var_1 + " " + var_2
  => "hello goodbye"
```

Above, in EXAMPLE 1, our two variables are Integers and behave like Integers. In
EXAMPLE 2 we change those variables to Strings and they behave like Strings.

Play around with some Ruby variables and methods in irb and experiment with the
different types of objects.

#### Playing with methods in irb (interactive ruby shell)

irb is super fun for playing around with Ruby methods. Here are a few we tried
out today. Go find some more and see what they do!

```irb
  string = "Hello John!"
  => "Hello John"

  string.gsub("John", "Kane")
  => "Hello Kane!""
```
```irb

  thing = 4
  => 4
  thing.class
  => Fixnum

  thing.methods
  => [:to_s, :inspect, :-@, :+, :-, :*, :/, :div, :%, :modulo ...(many more!)]

  thing.to_s
  => "4"
  thing.class
  => Fixnum
  #Are you surprised by this?? Didn't we just turn the integer 4 into the string
  "4"? Well, we did, but we didn't assign the variable the new value.

  thing = thing.to_s
  => "4"
  thing.class
  => String

```

##### What other methods did we play around with?

* .upcase
* .downcase
* .concat
* +
* -

##### Try string interpolation!

* always use double quotes for interpolation

Check out these exercises on [RubyMonk](http://rubymonk.com/learning/books/1-ruby-primer/chapters/5-strings/lessons/31-string-basics)

#### Try doing the Ageist exercise again, but a different way than last time.

Even if it doesn't seem like a better way! Playing around in Ruby is always beneficial.

[Ageist Exercise](http://g5.gschool.it/lessons/ruby-basics/3-flow/deliverable)

#### Know the Difference Between Arrays and Hashes (Collections)

##### Arrays

* Uses brackets []
* An ordered list of values
* Can hold any kind of data object (string, integer, symbol...)
* Elements in an array are accessed by addressing their numerical place
* Remember! The first element in an array has a numerical place of 0

```irb

  array = ["hello", 5, :cat, :dog, 7]
  => ["hello", 5, :cat, :dog, 7]

  array[0]
  => "hello"

  array[3]
  => :dog

  array.length
  => 5

  array.reverse
  => [7, :dog, :cat, 5, "hello"]

  array[-1] #This will give us the last element in an array
  => 7

  OR

  array = array.reverse
  array[-1]

  #What will this give us now? Try it in irb and find out.

```

##### Play around in irb with some of these:

Google these methods to find out more about how they work.

* .unshift
* .shift
* .push
* .pop
* .last
* .first
* .insert
* .delete
* .delete_at

Some of these methods actually mutate the state of your original array. Find out
which ones.

##### Hashes

* Uses curly braces {}
* Is an unordered list
* A hash maps values to a key using a hash rocket (=>) or a colon (:)
* Any data object can be used as a key
* Elements in a hash are accessed using the key
* Just like an array, you use brackets to access the value of an element

```ruby

  hash = {
    "cat" => 4,
      3 => "dog"
  }

  OR

  hash = {
    "cat" : 4,
      3 : "dog"
  }

```

In the above example, "cat" is the key and 4 is the value. And then 3 is the key
and "dog" is the value. In a hash, the key always comes first and then the value.

Make a hash in irb and practice accessing the values.

```irb

  hash = {
    "cat" => 1,
    "dog" => 2,
    :mouse => 3,
    5 => "bird"
  }

  hash["cat"]
  => 1

  hash[:mouse]
  => 3

  hash[:mouse] = 10
  => 10

  hash
   => {"cat"=>1, "dog"=>2, :mouse=>10, 5=>"bird"}

```

Practice accessing and changing the values in your hashes and arrays.

#### Tonight's Homework

[Arrays](https://github.com/gSchool/array-exercises)
[Hashes](https://github.com/gSchool/hash-exercises)
